[FAKE AUDIO] So recently I stumbled upon this wonderful article in Tin House's Writers Notebook 2. It was basically a schematic or a blueprint for how to put a short story together, even if you've never written one before, and it was kind of genius. The author was Antonio Nelson, who has published seven short story collections and also published in this very tiny little magazine you've probably never heard of, The New Yorker. So I figured, hey, this is somebody who I should really listen to about how to construct a short story. I started my career writing short stories, I published a collection of short stories with Press 53, and I once a big short story contest too, like Shenandoah and Third Coast, and I got one published in the Chicago Tribune as well. So I decided to test her short story method out, and I wrote it over a single day, and it actually worked quite well. And I even like it a week later, which is actually quite unusual. Normally I'm like in my editor mode, and I'm like, kill, kill, delete, delete. But no, I read it again, I'm like, all right, this is actually good. Now I tend not to like overly prescriptive advice when it comes to fiction writing, but I found that these nine steps gave you plenty of leeway and creativity, while simultaneously giving enough framework to guide you in the writing of a short story. So here are the nine steps, and along the way I'm going to give lots of examples from famous short stories, and also explain how I wrote my short story using this advice. One, write a story about something that's happened to you. I think she starts with this because tapping into a story that you know from your own life is a really good way to get to material with deeper weight that has real significance. If you struggle with infertility, or you've gone through a divorce, or you suffered from a theft, like all of these things are elements that you could turn into a story. And don't feel constrained by what actually happened in real life. What happened to your real life is just the starting point for your story. Perhaps in real life you had an illness which made you sick, but in your story you want to up the stakes a little bit, maybe make it life-threatening. Perhaps you were in love with someone in real life, but to spice it up in the story, you add another person who was vying for your beloved's attention, and so now it's sort of this love triangle. And when you look at short stories, there's actually quite a lot of famous short stories that just draw from the author's experience. James Baldwin's Sonny Blues draws from his experience growing up in Harlem. Philip Ross' Goodbye Columbus draws from his experiences of growing up as a Jew in New Jersey. Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carry draws from his experience of fighting in the Vietnam War. And because Alice Monroe just died, bless her heart, I have to bring up her short story, Boys and Girls, which mirrored her own upbringing in Canada. For my short story, I'm a big chess player, so I wrote about going to a chess tournament. And I did so thinking, hey, Queen's Gambit was amazing. Everybody seemed to love and watch that show, so I felt like there was a market there for this type of story. Nelson's second step, write the same story from a different point of view. Nelson, you're a genius. This is an essential step because it's teaching you how to rotate between a whole bunch of different perspectives to try to find the exact right perspective to tell the story from. After all, the best way to tell the story might not feature you as the main character. Sometimes authors write pretty decent stories that would be amazing stories if they were just told from a different point of view. The neighbor's point of view, or the spouse's point of view, the child's point of view, or even say the gun's point of view. Yes, you can write a story from an inanimate POV, although don't try that tricky stuff too often. Now, this is a great step because I don't think you can truly understand your story until you've looked at it for multiple points of view. Now, how do you choose between all these different points of view? Ideally, you want to choose one from a perspective of someone who has something at stake in the story. What's gonna happen if they don't get what they want? A wife might have her marriage at stake, a husband might have his career at stake, a neighbor might have his very happiness at stake, and maybe he's considering suicide or something. And as you're playing with these points of view, don't forget that you might end up with a very weird point of view. Like Jorge Luis Borges, he has a short story called The House of Asterian where he writes it from the perspective of a minotaur. Yeah, that minotaur, like the Greek myth type of minotaur. So don't be afraid of considering lots of options for what point of view you could tell the story from. Now, for my story, I didn't make up my point of view. I chose a character who was female. So I had a strong feminine lead as the narrator. Nelson's third step out of the nine is to create a ticking clock. A ticking clock is a countdown to a particular event. Think about how many high school stories have a countdown to prom at the end of the year. Or think about how every single road trip is structured, so we're looking forward to the end. For any sort of summer romance, it's confined within the summer. So we know there's an endpoint at the end of the summer when the story's gonna end. Ooh, I said end way too many times there. End, end, end, end, end, end. So a ticking clock pressurizes your book. It gives the reader something to look forward to. They are counting down until they reach that climactic event. It creates tension in the story and it creates suspense in the story because the reader wants to know how it's gonna end. Kind of like how in this video, you're looking forward to the ninth step of this guide. I've structured this video so it's ticking towards the finale. Think of the ticking clock of Cinderella. We have that midnight hour and she's gonna transform back. And so we're anticipating that as readers to see what will happen. Or a movie like Run Lola Run where she has 20 minutes to find 100,000 German marks in order to save her.
